doc: create services overview doc (#50)
LIF-Initiative/lif-core: docs/lif_services_overview.md

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->
# LIF Microservices Overview

## Understanding LIF as Building Blocks

> LIF (Learner Information Framework) provides infrastructure components for building custom learner data workflows—not a one-size-fits-all product. Think of these microservices as building blocks that can be composed to create tailored solutions for aggregating, transforming, and accessing learner information across multiple systems and institutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LIF (Learner Information Framework) provides infrastructure components for building custom learner data workflows - not a one-size-fits-all product. Think of these micro-services as building blocks that can be composed to create tailored solutions for aggregating, transforming, and accessing learner information across multiple systems and institutions.
```

**THIS SERVICE...**  
Offers a student-facing web interface for interacting with the AI-powered advisor.

**USE CASES:**

- Students asking "What courses do I need to graduate?"
- Learners exploring "What careers match my skills and experience?"
- Alumni reviewing their comprehensive learning history
- Job seekers understanding how to present their credentials to employers

**WORKS WITH:** Advisor API  
**TYPICAL USERS:** Students, learners, alumni

---

### 🔎 LIF Semantic Search MCP Server

**WHEN YOU NEED TO...**  
Enable AI tools and applications to discover and query learner data using natural language through the Model Context Protocol standard.

**THIS SERVICE...**  
Provides semantic search capabilities over learner data that can be accessed by MCP-compatible AI tools like Claude, Cursor, or custom AI applications.

**USE CASES:**

- Integrating learner data into AI development environments
- Enabling AI assistants to answer questions about student populations
- Building context-aware AI applications that understand learner records
- Creating custom AI tools that need semantic access to educational data

> **WORKS WITH:** GraphQL API  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**WORKS WITH:** GraphQL API, MDR API
```
... According to the reference docker compose file.

**Example Query Flow:**

1. A user queries the **GraphQL API** for a learner's complete record
2. **GraphQL API** forwards the query to **Query Planner API**
3. **Query Planner API** checks the **Query Cache API** for existing data
4. If data is missing or stale, **Query Planner API** consults **Identity Mapper API** for all known identities
5. **Query Planner API** triggers workflows via **Orchestrator API** to collect data
6. Orchestrator workflows fetch data from source systems, using **Translator API** if needed
7. Collected data is stored in **Query Cache API** as fragments and merged into an aggregate record
8. **GraphQL API** returns the complete learner record to the user

**Example AI-Powered Use Case:**

1. A student opens the **Advisor UI** and asks a question
2. **Advisor UI** sends the question to **Advisor API**
3. **Advisor API** queries learner data through **GraphQL API**
4. The query flows through the standard infrastructure (Query Planner, Cache, etc.)
5. **Advisor API** processes the data with AI and returns a natural language response
6. **Advisor UI** displays the conversational answer to the student

---

## Composing Solutions

> Not every organization needs all services. Here are common deployment patterns:

Reviewer: This makes it sound like LIF is deployed with enough adopters for patterns to emerge. Could we reword, such as `possible deployment patterns`?

**Simple Integration Pattern:**  

> GraphQL API + Query Planner + Query Cache + Translator + MDR (API & UI)

Reviewer: Should Orchestrator also be in this list?
